How do you estimate
the value of Machine
Learning Project?
This is sometimes not
easy to estimate,
but let me share with you
a few best practices.
Took speech recognition, let's
say you're working on building
a more accurate speech
recognition system
for the purpose of
voice search so that
people speak to
the smartphone app
to do web searches.
It turns out that
in most businesses
there will be some metrics
that machine learning engineers
are used to optimizing
and some metrics that
the owners of the product or
the business will
want to maximize.
There's often a gap between
these two building machine
learning systems to objective
that a learning
algorithm may optimize
might be something right
where level accuracy.
If a user says a certain
number of words,
how many of the words
do we get right?
Maybe the learning algorithm
actually does great in the sense
on log-likelihood or
some other criteria.
But many machine learning
teams would be comfortable
trying to get good
words-level accuracy.
But when using this in
a business context,
one other key metrics
query-level accuracy,
which is how often do you get
all the words in a query right.
For some businesses word-level
accuracy is important,
but query-level accuracy
may be even more important.
We've now taken one step
away from the objective
that the learning algorithm
is almost directly optimizing.
Even after you get
the query right,
which is important for
the user experience,
what users care even more
about is the search
result quality.
The reason the business may want
to ensure search result quality
is that this gives users
a better experience and just
increases user engagement,
so they come back to the
search engine more often.
This is important, but
this is just one step
towards actually driving the
revenue of the business.
One gap I've often seen
between machine learning
teams and business teams
is the entry team will
usually want to work on this,
whereas the business leader
may once promises on that.
In order for a project
to move forward,
I usually try to have
the technical and
the business teams try to agree
on metrics that both
are comfortable with.
This often takes a little bit of
compromise where the machine
learning team might stretch
a little bit further
to the right and
the business teams stretch
a little bit further to the left.
The further we go to the right,
the harder it is for
a machine learning team to
really give a guarantee.
I wish more problems
could be solved by
gradient descent or by
optimizing tested accuracy.
But that's just not to
say of the world today,
a lot of practical
problems require
we do something more than
just optimizing tested accuracy.
Having the technical team and
the business teams both step
a little bit outside their
comfort zone is often
important for reaching
compromise to pick
some set of metrics that the
technical team feels like
could stretch a bit to deliver
on and that the business
team can stretch
a bit to feel comfortable will
create sufficient value
for the business.
One other practice
I've found useful
is that if you can do
even very rough back of
the envelope calculations to
relate what level of
accuracy to some of the
metrics on the right.
If word accuracy
improves by one percent,
if you have any rough guess
for will that improve
query level accuracy,
maybe by 0.7 percent
or 0.8 percent,
and how much will that improve
search result quality and
user engagement
and maybe revenue,
if able to come up with
even a very crude back of
the envelope calculation.
Sometimes these are also
called Fermi estimates.
You can read about
this on Wikipedia.
That can also be a
way to help bridge
the machine learning and gene
metrics and business metrics.
Now it goes without
saying that as
part of estimating the
value of a project,
I would encourage you to give
thought to any ethical
considerations as well,
such as is this project
creating net positive
societal value?
If not, I hope you won't do it.
Or is this project
reasonably fair and
free from bias and have any
ethical or values-based concerns
been openly aired and debated?
I find it issues of
values and ethics is
very domain-dependent,
is very different in
making loans versus
health care versus
recommending products online.
Encourage you to look up
any ethical frameworks that have
been developed for your
industry and your application.
If you have any concerns,
raise it for debate
within your team.
Ultimately, if you don't
think the project
you're working on
will help other people or
will help humanity move forward,
I hope you'll keep
searching for other,
more meaningful
projects to jump into.
In my work, I have faced
difficult choices where
I really wasn't sure if
a particular project was
something I should work on.
Because I really didn't
know if it would make
people net-net better off,
and I found that having
a team debate and
discuss it openly often
helps us get to better answer
and feel more comfortable with
whatever decision we make.
I have called
multiple projects on
ethical considerations
when I felt
the project was
economically sound,
but I didn't think it
would help people,
and I just told the team,
I don't want to do it
and I won't do it.
I hope this gives
you a framework for
evaluating the
value of a project.
On the ethics and value piece,
I think all of us collectively
should only work on
projects that create net
positive social value,
that help other people that
move humanity forward.
I personally cool projects
just on that basis.
There are multiple
projects that I
felt the economic value
was completely sound.
The economic case
is completely fine,
but I look for the
price and I said,
I don't think this actually
helps people and have
cool projects just on that
basis and told my teams,
let's find something else to work
on because I'm not
going to do that.
I hope that you also be able
to focus your efforts just
on projects that help people
and that help move
humanity forward.